---
layout: page
title: About Me
tags: [about, Dhananjay,]
modified: 2014-08-08T20:53:07.573882-04:00
comments: true
image:
  feature: sample-image-1.jpg
  credit: Dhananjay Gupta
  creditlink: 
---

I'm Dhananjay Gupta, Graduate student from the Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Chicago. I'm humbled that you consider my introduction worthy of your valuable time. <br/><br/>
I like to code and play guitar. I see myself as a seeker, eager to know anything and everything. I have a passion for solving puzzles and like to have nerdy talks.<br/><br/>
A deep-rooted interest of staying abreast with newly evolving trends in technology and how technology has made life very comfortable has dawned upon me that we live in the Age of Technology where every single day sees a spate of new concepts and applications being devised and each passing day making them obsolete. The rapid boom in engineering and technology, particularly computer science which offers a surfeit of exciting job opportunities, has thrusted my decision on embarking a career path in this thriving sector. A fascination with computers coupled with their capability to solve difficult problems in an optimum manner, propelled my interest towards improving my knowledge set and skills in the same direction. Problem solving, mathematical puzzles and devising new algorithms is where my strength lies. Thus, pursuing my Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology was an easy decision.<br/><br/>
The subjects that interested me among them were Data Structure and Algorithms, Operating System and Compiler Design and Automata since they involved extensive computational and problem solving skills where my interest lies. In retrospect, endowed with a puzzle solving and intuitive mind, I was exposed to chess at the age of 9. Seeing my natural flair for chess, my father gifted me a personal computer since he wanted me to play chess on the computer to refine my skills. Gradually, I developed a penchant towards playing mind games on computer and soon started coding simple games. Since our curriculum included programming languages from 6th grade, I was exposed to a strong technical foundation since a young age.<br/><br/> 
I have always stood among the top 3 students at school and was bestowed a full tuition fee waiver scholarship for 11th and 12thgrade on account of my exceptional performance in my 10th grade. The computer Science department at the University of Illinois at Chicago has awarded me with an guaranteed assistanship within the department. I hold EMC Academic Associate certifications in Cloud Infrastructure and service, Information Storage and Management. I pursuaded a research on improving the efficiencies of priority queues as my academic major project. I hold recognition certificates from WCMAS, a program based on visual arithmetic and computation skills, for my exceptional performance at state level. <br/><br/>
I developed an Online Shopping Web Application as the culmination of my training in using J2SE, J2EE and related technologies. Through these technologies I implemented a very efficient shopping cart and encryption technique while designing a secure login system. My final year project involved a research on improving the efficiencies of priority queues. Additionally, I have had attended technical workshops for Object Oriented Design using RSA, Software Testing and Design using RFT, student development program on ERP and Business Intelligence Reporting. <br/><br/>
Apart from academic pursuits, I harbor an inclination towards music and have been awarded a certificate with distinction from Trinity College London for my proficiency in classical guitar. I underwent training at the International Association of Lions Clubs wherein I successfully completed my training in Lions District Leadership Workshop-2015. I have volunteered for Indian Water Works Association and All World Gayatri Pariwar which is a living model of a futuristic society. <br/><br/>
At this crucial juncture, I am pursuing the Master’s program in Computer Science offered at the University of Illinois at Chicago, which is the best platform for any student pursuing a career in this field in terms of the quality of education, research facilities and world-class faculty. In a university like which boasts of a confluence of people from every culture, nationality, religion and ideology, I am confident about it aiding up to the overall development of my personality. I am optimistic that education from such a prestigious university will equip me with the best set of skills and expertise to scale great heights professionally. After completion of the program, I aspire to work as a software engineer and contribute towards society. 
