---

layout: post

title: “Prograsm”

excerpt: "Prograsm: Reaching a successful programing project climax"

modified: 2018-08-20

tags: [Software Engineering, Software Design, Analysis, Dhananjay Gupta, The Mythical Man Month]

comments: true

image:
  feature: DhananjayGuptaPrograsm.jpg

---

 

<section id="table-of-contents" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h3>Overview</h3>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
*  Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section><!-- /#table-of-contents -->

I have called this [**Prograsm**](http://dgupta.us/Prograsm/) --"for a lack of a better word", that could
effectively describes the feeling when a programming project reaches its successful climax. 
For many, the joys far outweigh the woes, and for them, this shall be the right guide.

Introduction
------------

In many ways managing a large computer programming project is like managing any other large undertaking--in many more ways than most programmers believe. 
But in many other ways it is different--in more ways than most professional managers expect.
<br/><br/> 
Following is a **gist** from [**The Mythical Man Month by Frederick P. Brooks, Jr.**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mythical_Man-Month),most widely recognized as one of the best book on software engineering.
<br/><br/> 
The book gets into much details, stablishing the foundation and describing each aspect thoroughly. This post provides an high-level, point wise gist of  
some of the most important aspects of software engineering, it's an [*afflatus*](http://dgupta.us/) from the holy book of software engineering. 
I would highly recommend reading the book for your own complete enlightenment.

The Tar Pit
-----------
- Adjusting to the requirement for perfection is, I think, the most difficult part of learning to program. <br/><br/>
- The technological base on which one builds is always advancing. As soon as one freezes a design, it becomes obsolete in
terms of its concepts. But implementation of real products demands phasing and quantizing. The obsolescence of an implementation
must be measured against other existing implementations, not against unrealized concepts. The challenge and the mission are
to find real solutions to real problems on actual schedules with available resources.<br/><br/>
This then is programming, both a **tar pit** in which many efforts
have floundered and a creative activity with joys and woes all its
own. For many, the joys far outweigh the woes, and for them the
remainder of this post will attempt to lay some boardwalks across
the tar.

The Mythical Man Month
----------------------
- The maximum number of men depends upon the number
of independent subtasks. From these two quantities one can derive
schedules using fewer men and more months. The only risk is
product obsolescence.<br/><br/>
- One cannot, however, get workable schedules
using more men and fewer months. More software projects
have gone awry for lack of calendar time than for all other causes
combined.

The Surgical Team
-----------------

>   The Mythical Man Month, Fred Brooks described **conceptual integrity** as “the most important consideration in system design.”

###### The Problem

- Within a group of even experienced programmers just this group the ratios between best and worst performances averaged about 10:1 on productivity measurements and an amazing 5:1 on
program speed and space measurements! In short the $20,000/year programmer may well be 10 times as productive as the $10,000/year one.<br/><br/>
- For **efficiency** and **conceptual
integrity,** one prefers a few good minds doing design and construction.
Yet for large systems one wants a way to bring considerable
manpower to bear, so that the product can make a timely appearance.
How can these two needs be reconciled? The dilemma is a cruel one!

###### The solution

A proposal by Harlan Mills offers a fresh and creative solution. Mills proposes that each segment of a large job be tackled
by a team, but that the team be organized like a **surgical team** rather than a hog-butchering team. That is, instead of each member
cutting away on the problem, one does the cutting and the others give him every support that will enhance his effectiveness and productivity.<br/><br/>
+ **The surgeon:** He personally defines the functional and performance specifications, designs the
program, codes it, tests it, and writes its documentation. He writes in a structured programming language such as PL/I, and has effective
access to a computing system which not only runs his tests but also stores the various versions of his programs, allows easy file
updating, and provides text editing for his documentation. He needs great talent, ten years experience, and considerable systems
and application knowledge, whether in applied mathematics, business data handling, or whatever. <br/><br/>
+ **The copilot:** He is the alter ego of the surgeon, able to do any part of the job, but is less experienced. His main function is to
share in the design as a thinker, discussant, and evaluator. The surgeon tries ideas on him, but is not bound by his advice. The
copilot often represents his team in discussions of function and interface with other teams. He knows all the code intimately. He
researches alternative design strategies. He obviously serves as insurance against disaster to the surgeon. He may even write code,
but he is not responsible for any part of the code. <br/><br/>
+ **The administrator:** The surgeon is boss, and he must have the last word on personnel, raises, space, and so on, but he must spend
almost none of his time on these matters. Thus he needs a professional administrator who handles money, people, space, and machines,
and who interfaces with the administrative machinery of the rest of the organization. Baker suggests that the administrator
has a full-time job only if the project has substantial legal, contractual, reporting, or financial requirements because of the user-producer
relationship. Otherwise, one administrator can serve two teams.<br/><br/>
+ **The editor:** The surgeon is responsible for generating the documentation—for maximum clarity he must write it. This is true of
both external and internal descriptions. The editor, however, takes the draft or dictated manuscript produced by the surgeon and
criticizes it, reworks it, provides it with references and bibliography, nurses it through several versions, and oversees the mechanics
of production.<br/><br/>
+ **Two secretaries:** The administrator and the editor will each need
a secretary; the administrator's secretary will handle project correspondence
and non-product files.<br/><br/>
+ **The program clerk:** He is responsible for maintaining all the technical records of the team in a programming-product library.
The clerk is trained as a secretary and has responsibility for both machine-readable and human-readable files.
All computer input goes to the clerk, who logs and keys it if required. The output listings go back to him to be filed and indexed.
The most recent runs of any model are kept in a status notebook; all previous ones are filed in a chronological archive.
Absolutely vital to Mills's concept is the transformation of programming "from private art to public practice" by making all
the computer runs visible to all team members and identifying all programs and data as team property, not private property.
The specialized function of the program clerk relieves programmers of clerical chores, systematizes and ensures proper performance of those oft-neglected chores, and enhances the team's
most valuable asset—its work-product. Clearly the concept as set forth above assumes batch runs. When interactive terminals are
used, particularly those with no hard-copy output, the program clerk's functions do not diminish, but they change. Now he logs
all updates of team program copies from private working copies, still handles all batch runs, and uses his own interactive facility to
control the integrity and availability of the growing product. <br/><br/>
+ **The toolsmith:** File-editing, text-editing, and interactive debugging services are now readily available, so that a team will rarely
need its own machine and machine-operating crew. But these services must be available with unquestionably satisfactory response
and reliability; and the surgeon must be sole judge of the adequacy of the service available to him. He needs a toolsmith,
responsible for ensuring this adequacy of the basic service and for constructing, maintaining, and upgrading special tools—mostly
interactive computer services—needed by his team. Each team will need its own toolsmith, regardless of the excellence and reliability
of any centrally provided service, for his job is to see to the tools needed or wanted by his surgeon, without regard to any other
team's needs. The tool-builder will often construct specialized utilities, catalogued procedures, macro libraries.<br/><br/>
+ **The tester:** The surgeon will need a bank of suitable test cases for testing pieces of his work as he writes it, and then for testing
the whole thing. The tester is therefore both an adversary who devises system test cases from the functional specs, and an assistant
who devises test data for the day-by-day debugging. He would also plan testing sequences and set up the scaffolding required
for component tests.<br/><br/>
+ **The language lawyer:** By the time Algol came along, people began to recognize that most computer installations have one or
two people who delight in mastery of the intricacies of a programming language. And these experts turn out to be very useful and
very widely consulted. The talent here is rather different from that of the surgeon, who is primarily a system designer and who thinks
representations. The language lawyer can 6nd a neat and efficient way to use the language to do difficult, obscure, or tricky things.
Often he will need to do small studies (two or three days) on good technique. One language lawyer can service two or three surgeons.
This, then, is how 10 people might contribute in well differentiated and specialized roles on a programming team built
on the surgical model. 

###### How It Works!

+ The team should meet the desiderata in several ways. Ten
people, seven of them professionals, are at work on the problem,
but the system is the product of one mind—or at most two, acting
uno animo.<br/><br/>
+ In this team, the **surgeon and copilot** are each
cognizant of all of the design and all of the code. This saves the
labor of allocating space, disk accesses, etc. It also ensures the
**conceptual integrity** of the work. <br/><br/>
+ The specialization of function of the remainder of the team
is the key to its efficiency, for it permits a radically simpler communication
pattern among the member. <br/><br/>
+ Second, in the conventional team the partners are equal, and the inevitable differences of judgment must be talked out or compromised. Since the work and resources are divided, the differences in judgment are confined to overall strategy and interfacing, but they are compounded by differences of interest—e.g., whose space will be used for a buffer. In the surgical team, there are no differences of interest, and differences of judgment are settled by the surgeon unilaterally. <br/><br/>
+ These two differences—lack of division of the problem and the superior-subordinate relationship—make it possible for the surgical team to act uno animo.
+ To make the job manageable, a sharp distinction must be made between architecture and implementation, and the system architecture must confine himself scrupulously to architecture.

###### Scaling up!

+ The problem now, is how to build things that today take 5000 man-years. A 10-man team can be effective if the *whole* job is within its purview. <br/><br/>
+ The success of scaling-up project depends upon the fact that the conceptual integrity of each piece has been radically improved—that the number of minds determining the design has been divided by seven. So is possible to put 200 people and face the problem of coordinating only 20 minds., those of the surgeons. <br/><br/>
**For that coordination problem, however, separate techniques must be used, and these shall be discussed in the next edit made to this post! I will put a bi-weekly update with the next chapters, until then, stay tuned!!**
